---
title: 'Exporting PxL Scripts to a Plugin'
metaTitle: 'Tutorials | Integrations and Alerts | Exporting a PxL Script'
metaDescription: 'Export PxL Scripts to a Plugin'
order: 4
redirect_from:
  - /tutorials/export-live-view/
---

This tutorial shows you how to automatically convert a PxL Script into an OpenTelemetry export script that can be used with a Pixie plugin.
Plugin scripts make it easy to extend Pixie's capabilities: you can enable a wide-range of use-cases
including long-term storage and [control signals for autoscalers](https://blog.px.dev/autoscaling-custom-k8s-metric/).

We released the [OpenTelemetry Exporter](/tutorials/integrations/otel) and [Plugin System](https://blog.px.dev/plugin-system/) a few months before,
but we got a lot of feedback that writing export scripts was long and repetitive.

We built this new flow to automate out the tedious parts of writing export scripts.

## Prerequisites

1. You will need a Kubernetes cluster. If you don’t already have one, you can create a minikube cluster following the directions [here](/installing-pixie/setting-up-k8s/minikube-setup/).

2. You will need to install Pixie on your cluster using one of our [install guides](/installing-pixie/install-guides/).

3. You will need to setup a [Pixie plugin](/reference/plugins/plugin-system/). You can [setup a simple demo collector](https://github.com/pixie-io/pixie-demos/tree/main/otel-collector) to try the feature out.

## Writing the PxL script in the Live UI

PxL scripts are used to query telemetry data collected by the Pixie Platform. Here we will write a script that calculates the throughput of requests through each endpoint of each pod in your cluster. In the following section, we'll convert the script into an OpenTelemetry export script.

We'll use the Live UI's `Scratch Pad` to develop our PxL script.

1. Open Pixie's [Live UI](/using-pixie/using-live-ui/).

2. Select the `Scratch Pad` script from the `script` drop-down menu in the top left.
   <svg src='plugin/scratch_pad_selection.png'/>

3. Open the script editor using the keyboard shortcut: `ctrl+e` (Windows, Linux) or `cmd+e` (Mac).

4. Replace the contents of the `PxL Script` tab with the following.

```python:numbers
import px
# Read in the http_events table
df = px.DataFrame(table='http_events', start_time='-10s', end_time=px.now())

# Attach the pod and service metadata
df.pod = df.ctx['pod']
df.service = df.ctx['service']
# Count the number of requests per pod and service
df = df.groupby(['pod', 'service', 'req_path']).agg(
  throughput=('latency', px.count),
  time_=('time_', px.max),
)

px.display(df, 'http')
```

5. Run the script using the `RUN` button in the top right or by using the keyboard shortcut: `ctrl+enter` (Windows, Linux) or `cmd+enter` (Mac).

6. Hide the script editor using `ctrl+e` (Windows, Linux) or `cmd+e` (Mac).

> Your Live UI should output something similar to the following:

<svg src='plugin/generate_otel_results.png'/>

> This PxL script calculates the throughput of HTTP requests made to each pod in your cluster.

## Exporting the PxL Script

Now that we have our PxL script, let's export it.

7. Open the script editor again (`ctrl+e` or `cmd+e`)

8. On the top right corner, click "Export to Plugin". Pixie will process the script and attempt to generate an OpenTelemetry export configuration for it.
   <svg src='plugin/export_button.png'/>

9. If the export fails, you'll see an error message.
   <svg src='plugin/time_column_missing.png'/>

10. If the export is successful, you'll be directed to the "Create Export Script" page with the generated OpenTelemetry Export Script already filled in!  
    <svg src='plugin/create_export_script.png'/>

11. Read over the generated script and make any changes such as adding resource columns or removing undesired metrics. See [How it Works](#how-it-works) for more on how the script is generated.

12. Set the name of the script to `my-export-script` and set the Plugin provider to `OpenTelemetry`.
    <svg src='plugin/named_create_export_script.png'/>

13. Click `Create` and you should see `my-export-script` in the "Custom Scripts" section. Your data should now be sent to whatever Plugin you configured.
    <svg src='plugin/export_status.png'/>

## How it Works

When you export a PxL script, we extract the schema generated by the script and auto-generate the OpenTelemetry Export PxL for each table.
`INT64` and `FLOAT64` columns become [`Gauges`](/reference/pxl/otel-export/px.otel.metric.gauge) while other column types become the
[`resource attributes`](/reference/pxl/otel-export/px.otel.data) of the exported Data.

Any calls to `px.DataFrame` are rewritten to replace the `start_time` argument with `px.plugin.start_time` and `end_time` argument with `px.plugin.end_time`.
These arguments are filled in by the Plugin script-runner with the start and end times of the current summary window. The summary window size can be configured
on the "Create Export Script" page.

## Next Steps

You've now converted your first PxL script into an OpenTelemetry export script. You can
dive deeper into PxL scripts by checking out our ["How to Write a PxL Script"](/tutorials/pxl-scripts/write-pxl-scripts/) series or by reading through the [PxL documentation](/reference/pxl/).

You can also learn more about Pixie's OpenTelemetry integration [in this tutorial](/tutorials/integrations/otel/) and through the [OpenTelemetry Export documentation](/reference/pxl/otel-export/).

## Troubleshooting

Having problems? Check out the [Pixie Plugin Troubleshooting](/about-pixie/troubleshooting/#troubleshooting-a-pixie-plugin) guide.
